# Deep dive into basics
- 

## Flexbox and Layout
- You can find the details about this from [here](https://reactnative.dev/docs/flexbox)
- Flex will define how your items are going to “fill” over the available space along your main axis. Space will be divided according to each element's flex property.
```
    import React from "react";
    import { StyleSheet, Text, View } from "react-native";

    const Flex = () => {
    return (
        <View style={[styles.container, {
        // Try setting `flexDirection` to `"row"`.
        flexDirection: "column"
        }]}>
        <View style={{ flex: 1, backgroundColor: "red" }} />
        <View style={{ flex: 2, backgroundColor: "orange" }} />
        <View style={{ flex: 3, backgroundColor: "green" }} />
        </View>
    );
    };

    const styles = StyleSheet.create({
    container: {
        flex: 1,
        padding: 20,
    },
    });

    export default Flex;
```
- In the above code, total screen will be divided into 3 sections, red view will be 10%, orange will be 20% and green will be 30% of the screen

## Flex Direction
- It controls the direction in which the children of a node are laid out. This is also referred to as the main axis. The cross axis is the axis perpendicular to the main axis, or the axis which the wrapping lines are laid out in.
- **column** (default value) Align children from top to bottom. If wrapping is enabled, then the next line will start to the right of the first item on the top of the container.

- **row** Align children from left to right. If wrapping is enabled, then the next line will start under the first item on the left of the container.

- **column-reverse** Align children from bottom to top. If wrapping is enabled, then the next line will start to the right of the first item on the bottom of the container.

- **row-reverse** Align children from right to left. If wrapping is enabled, then the next line will start under the first item on the right of the container.

## Other properties
- **Layout Direction** specifies the direction in which children and text in a hierarchy should be laid out. Layout direction also affects what edge start and end refer to. By default, React Native lays out with LTR layout direction. In this mode start refers to left and end refers to right.
- **justifyContent** describes how to align children within the main axis of their container. For example, you can use this property to center a child horizontally within a container with flexDirection set to row or vertically within a container with flexDirection set to column
- **alignItems** describes how to align children along the cross axis of their container. It is very similar to justifyContent but instead of applying to the main axis, alignItems applies to the cross axis.
    - stretch, flex-start, flex-end, center, baseline
- **alignSelf** has the same options and effect as alignItems but instead of affecting the children within a container, you can apply this property to a single child to change its alignment within its parent. alignSelf overrides any option set by the parent with alignItems    
- **alignContent** defines the distribution of lines along the cross-axis. This only has effect when items are wrapped to multiple lines using flexWrap.

## Practice [here](https://yogalayout.com/playground/) 
## Flexbox basics [here](https://academind.com/tutorials/flexbox-basics-container) 

## Inline Styles & Stylesheet Objects
- Inline style is where you will add styles to each views or widget inside tha tag
- Stylesheet object means, you will create a stylesheet object and assign the style to each view with its style name.
- Here is the example
```
        export default function App() {
        return (
            <View style={styles.screen}>
            <View style={styles.inputContainer}>
                <TextInput placeholder="Course Goal" style={styles.input} />
                <Button title="ADD" />
            </View>
            <View />
            </View>
        );
        }

        const styles = StyleSheet.create({
        screen: {
            padding: 50
        },
        inputContainer: {
            flexDirection: 'row',
            justifyContent: 'space-between',
            alignItems: 'center'
        },
        input: {
            width: '80%',
            borderColor: 'black',
            borderWidth: 1,
            padding: 10
        }
        });
```

## State and Events
- 
